So in this video, we're going to discuss
another new string featuring Kotlin
called raw strings or triple quoted
strings, you'll hear them refer to using
both terms. Now, when you use triple
quoted strings, you don't have to escape
characters, they can also contain line
breaks, but you can't use special
characters like tab and newline
characters. So let's look at an example.
I'll just close off the console for a minute.
One example where you might want to use
this is if you're on a window system and
you have to type file paths, as we know
they can look really ugliest strings if we go val
file path equals and we go see, you have
to escape the back slashes, you know
somedir, somedir2, the back slashes have
to be escaped, otherwise if we go like
this, we're going to get a little morning
from IntelliJ saying, hey you're
illegally escaping this etc. So we could
do this as a triple quoted string, so
instead we'd add two quotes, add two
quotes and now we actually have a valid
file path and we don't have to use the
escape character here, we don't have to
escape the back slashes so that's one
use of triple quoted strings or raw
strings, when you have a bunch of stuff
you have to escape, if you want your
string to look nicer, you can use a
triple quoted string instead. Another use
is when you have a string that you have
to break up over several lines and you
can do that with triple quoted strings
quite easily, so let's try that I'm going
to get rid of this definition here and
we'll say val nursery rhyme equals and
we'll do a triple string Humpty Dumpty
sat on the wall and we can just hit
return here now, we don't have to do
anything else.
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall, all the king's
horses and all the king's men. I don't
know if that's capital or not, but couldn't
put Humpty together again.
And we'll end up with a trip- ended with
a triple quote and now we'll see that
Kotlin understands this, it's not
giving us any errors, even though we've
broken it over several lines and we're
not concatenating at all.
So let's print that out, we'll run and
you'll see that it printed it out and
also included the new lines and that's
one reason why you can't include where
you don't even need to include new line
characters within triple quoted strings,
you just have to use the actual newline
character by hitting enter and it will
understand that within a triple quoted
string. Now you're probably looking at
this and saying well that's all well and
good, but you know look at this
indentation, we don't want that in our
code. So fortunately, there's a way to get
around that and what you have to do is
use a function called trim margin. Now,
with trim margin what you do is you pass
it a character or you can use the
default margin character and then the
character that you pass it, you append to
the beginning of every line, I just
noticed I have a typo here, so I'll add
thet t, so for example if we want it to
use the asterisks as our trim margin
character, we'd say dot trim margin and
then we just pass the asterisks in, but
now we have to append asterisks in front
of all the individual lines, but now we
can indent all of these, so we can give
them the proper indentation and this
should be double quotes, not single
quote, so we're actually passing the
character as a string and now when
Kotlin parses this string if- when it
sees the margin character, it will trim
everything up to and including the
margin character, so it's going to trim
off all this extra space and the margin
character. So now if we run, we'll see the
same thing,
we won't see stuff indented and we have
the proper indentation in our code.
Now, if we didn't have this margin character
if I just remove this for a minute, let's
see what it does now. So now you'll see
it's not doing any trimming, so we get
all the extra space. So I'm going to use
ctrl Z to bring back my trim margin, now
if you don't specify a character here,
the default character is the pipe
character, so we'd have to change all of
these to pipes and if we run again,
we'll see that we get all the space
trimmed. So the character that's used as
a trim character will trim everything up
to and including the trim character that
we've passed in or the default and we
don't need one here, because we don't
have any any space to trim in the first
line, we only need it on lines where
there's a whole bunch of leading blanks.
Now, of course you can also use string
templates within triple quoted strings,
so let's try that, we'll just say egg
name equals Humpty, Humpty let's say and
then we can use star egg names
wherever Humpty appears. And if we run
now, look at the same result so you can
combine string templates and triple
quoted strings, so that completes our
look at some of the basic differences
between Java and Kotlin, now coming from
Java, you might find it strange working
with Kotlin at first and your first
crack at code might look more like Java
than Kotlin, it's usually going to be a
lot more verbose and it has to be, but
you'll get better with practice, I find
that the ID
can really help you out with this, when I
first started using Kotlin I was doing
what everybody else does and often my
statements were more verbose, so pay
attention to what the IDE is telling you,
look for things that are grayed out take
a look at the lightning bulb if it comes
up. A lot of the Lightning involved
suggestions you don't really have to do,
but take a look. The other thing that I
would do sometimes is if I wasn't sure
whether I needed something I just delete
it and see if I got an error and you'd
be amazed at what you can learn by doing
that. So you might want to start with the
most verbose line, because that's
probably what your first thought will be.
And then say oh do I really need the
data type here? Well, I'll just delete it
and then see if I get an error and you
can learn really quickly that way what
you have to specify and when. Also keep
in mind that many of the Kotlin changes
are just syntactical sugar, so under the
covers the verbose way and the Kotlin way
are often compiled to the exact same
thing, so the fact that you're using the
verbose way doesn't necessarily mean
that your application is going to be
worse, it's going to perform badly or
anything like that, it just means that
you're not really writing at the Kotlin
way and you'll get better with that in
time. So take your time, practice and
you'll eventually do it the Kotlin way
first and then when you go back to Java
you'll notice how much more code you
have to write to do the same thing.
Anyway, I'll see you in the next video.